---
layout: post
title: CUNY Set Theory Seminar - Canonical inner models and their HODs
date: 2017-12-01
category: talk
---

On Dec 1st, 2017, at 10:00am I gave a talk in the [CUNY
Set Theory Seminar](https://boolesrings.org/victoriagitman/cuny-logic-seminars/cuny-set-theory-seminar). 

*Abstract:* An essential question regarding the theory
of inner models is the analysis of the class of all hereditarily
ordinal definable sets $\operatorname{HOD}$ inside various inner
models $M$ of the set theoretic universe $V$ under appropriate
determinacy hypotheses. Examples for such inner models $M$ are
$L(\mathbb{R})$, $L[x]$ and $M_n(x)$. Woodin showed that under
determinacy hypotheses these models of the form $\operatorname{HOD}^M$
contain large cardinals, which motivates the question whether they are
fine-structural as for example the models $L(\mathbb{R})$, $L[x]$ and
$M_n(x)$ are. A positive answer to this question would yield that they
are models of $\operatorname{CH}, \Diamond$, and other combinatorial
principles. 

The first model which was analyzed in this sense was
$\operatorname{HOD}^{L(\mathbb{R})}$ under the assumption that every
set of reals in $L(\mathbb{R})$ is determined. In the 1990's Steel and
Woodin were able to show that $\operatorname{HOD}^{L(\mathbb{R})} =
L[M_\infty, \Lambda]$, where $M_\infty$ is a direct limit of iterates
of the canonical mouse $M_\omega$ and $\Lambda$ is a partial iteration
strategy for $M_\infty$. Moreover Woodin obtained a similar result for
the model $\operatorname{HOD}^{L[x,G]}$ assuming $\Delta^1_2$
determinacy, where $x$ is a real of sufficiently high Turing degree,
$G$ is $\operatorname{Col}(\omega, {<}\kappa_x)$-generic over $L[x]$
and $\kappa_x$ is the least inaccessible cardinal in $L[x]$. 

In this talk I will give an overview of these results (including some
background on inner model theory) and outline how they can be extended
to the model $\operatorname{HOD}^{M_n(x,g)}$ assuming
$\boldsymbol\Pi^1_{n+2}$ determinacy, where $x$ again is a real of
sufficiently high Turing degree, $g$ is $\operatorname{Col}(\omega,
{<}\kappa_x)$-generic over $M_n(x)$ and $\kappa_x$ is the least
inaccessible cardinal in $M_n(x)$. 

This is joint work with Grigor Sargsyan. 
